---
date: '2005-05-31T20:00:00.000-04:00'
description: ''
published: true
slug: 2005-05-hockey_31
tags:
- http://schemas.google.com/blogger/2008/kind#post
- Hockey
- legacy-blogger
time_to_read: 5
title: Hockey!
---

We'll my friends, you are reading the pen of a d-league hockey champion. Yes indeed! Sarah, Shelley, Jeff, and me. We kicked some serious ass on the ice. We led by one goal the whole game and finished 4-3, claiming the title and winning our much deserved t-shirts.

The game was extremely intense, with each of us taking a good hit (read: fall) and Jeff getting a penalty. The other team was ridiculously aggressive. Now don't get me wrong, I love playing super-aggressive, but these guys took it to a new level. They were skating and playing hard, they were just taking sucker shots and slide tackles. I lost track of the number of times we had multiple players go down as one of their guys slide into a group head first.

During the Shelley's first line, someone took the liberty of hooking her leg and yanking her down in what appeared to be a painful manner. It really was bullshit. The same happened to the rest of us a number of times. Jeff's penalty was even strength so no big deal. The other team had an additional penalty for all the crazy tripping, giving us a power play.

That should be a sign that something's amiss: penalties. We're in D league and haven't had a penalty the whole quarter until tonight. And the other team got TWO! Craziness.

Anyway, now were are invincible. ;)